# On simple features: the cost of complexity
# On project decisions

I've been a CTO for some time and I've learned a lot about taking business decisions on how to build software and what to build.

So this is the case:
- We think that we have three possible 'projects' that could hypotetically give a revenue of 100, 50, 80 respectively.
- How we decide if we should do A, B, or C?

One common approach is comparing the expected revenue and ask the Engineering team to give the effort of each one, and then do a simple cost/benefit analysis. The idea makes a ton of sense.

The problem is:
- How we determine the revenue
- We shouldn't think in terms of 'effort' but in terms of cost

And what are the costs involved in software development?
- The time taken (it's cost of opportunity)
- The sexyness/innovation of the project 
  - less sexy projects are costly in terms of the team
  - less innovative projects are not long term, depending on what you do, if you want to be disruptive in the tech part, you should be doing innovation/research/experimenting all the time if you want to find something interesting
  - The Team is built, and the development culture is built
    - Less sexy projects means:
      - More difficult to get good developers that boost your productivity
 
- Building a team should be a concern of the whole company. 

---

# On small teams

---

# On technical debt

This is one of the most confusing terms I ever heard in a software development environment.
Code is always technical debt. Do you want to know how big is your technical debt? Just find out how much code you have.

Software development projects usually follow the same path.
At the first weeks/months everything is super fast

- Don't make your own CMS
- Don't make your own Blogging Platform
- Don't make your own Datawarehouse

If you can avoid writing code, avoid it!

Code is not an asset. Code is a liability.

If you wrote code, just delete it (if you can). If you wrote code that can be deleted, you did it well. Congrats!

Developers are a liability too. They are 'tomadores de deuda'. That's why I don't believe in big teams.

That's why misunderstanding the cost of code as the time taken is completely wrong. How fast developers can write the code is not a good metric of the cost, it just answer the question of 'how fast can you get me a debt?'

Taco Bell programmers

