# Cómo decidir entre un 'proyecto' u otro

All software suck. There's software that suck less and software that sucks more, but software always sucks.

Programming is terrible (http://programmingisterrible.com)

El tema es el siguiente:
¿Cómo decidir cuál es el próximo proyecto que encarará un equipo dentro de una empresa? Es un problema obvio, que tenemos que pasar todos.

# Cost-benefit Analysis for Software Development

I'm reading the first Google's result for that expression: "cost-benefit analysis for Software Development"

--
"With an average failure rate of 20%, software projects are at a high risk for costing more money than they generate. Performing a thorough analysis of a project’s costs and expected benefits or outcomes is the only way to identify whether or not a given project will be profitable—and therefore viable—for your company."

I guess the article means a ratio of success of 20%. Anyway, 20% of sucess sound too good and I'm doubting how they are measuring failure or success.

---------

Software is about people. Software is about culture. People are complicated, people are contradictory

---
Most people involved in software development decisiones get frustrated. Benefits are not the expected, deadlines are unmet, costs are higher than expected.

All of that happen because software is not a science but craftmanship.
Developing software means taking a lot of a decisions (at every minute) without knowing the reasons. Software development is guided by instinct. It's a discipline more akin to an art, to the art of writing, to the art of simplifying things, and to some discipline.

Software development is a risky business. You're paying high salaries to people that's taking costly decisions that will affect your business and that are shaping the future of your organization.

On the other hand, and maybe in a stronger way, your organization is giving shape to your code.

---

The code you have is always a debt. The more the code the higher the debt.

If the primary thing you're evaluating when doing cost-benefit analysis is the time taken, then you're doing everything wrong. Time taken is the less costly part.

Cost of development can be distilled in many components:
- Time taken (cost of opportunity of doing a different thing)
- Which task you're doing
- Easyness to be decoupled
- Learning experience
- Improvement of the team:

  Most of teams are highly improductive. If you decide to remove two hours per day per developer in a normal full time contract, you get almost the same result.
  Most of teams are highly improductive for many reasons:
  - No effort in reducing overhead
  - No effort in experimenting/researching
  - No effort in getting software quality

- Most software projects are full of unneeded features. And we pay a debt (that has interest every month)
- Those extra (overhead) features make the scope too broad.
- The too broad scope makes impossible to finish in time. Not being in time makes other people anxious, makes too difficult to think clearly, to care about quality.
- It doesn't make sense either to care about quality software for crappy features.

---------------------------
Then how should we do software risk-benefit analysis?

- Frugal culture: the less software the better. The less options the better. Constant review of overhead.
- Deleting software should be a priority. Deleting features is reducing cost and getting agility. Either you learn how to be frugal, how to be conservative in terms of code (liability) either you end up with a codebase in wich every change has unexpected consequences, where every deadline is ridiculously long and still always failed.
- Get the best possible team.

---

Less software is better: that's the only way to go. You can get away with uncontrolled grow of the code quantity for a short amount of time. You cannot have a team of 6 developers taking debt (I insist: code in production is debt. And it's costing you every single day)

Investing in your team:
 - Frugality and simplicity should be a zen goal of every developer
 - "Great Projects"/"Super cool ideas" should be analyzed in terms of complexity and decoupling
 - Projects that take a lot of time usually are bad ideas: if we need a lot of time to take the debt, it probably means the debt is not small
 - Project with a big scope and a short deadline are going to be much much worse:
   - If you need to get a lot of money in short of time, you'll do it, but the interest is going to be reaally high.
   - This is the same thing. I even listened something like "with so short time, developers shouldn't be thinking, they should be doing things. They shouldn't be allowed to think more than the 40% of their time" (this is a real quote)
 
 - Thinking: given the same scope, simpler solutions can take more time, because there are more polished solutions. Simplicity is an art too. Complexity and bloatedness are the easiest things to come up with.
 -  

--------

If you force your team to write crappy software, you ruin your team. And there's a point of no return in which the only way to improve the team is changing it, removing 'old overhead-used guys' and hiring fresh blood. Hiring half new team abruptly is very risky and you have to be careful. New people learn old habits really soon.
[experimento de la banana]

----

If you hire someone new, don't make it work. Give them a completely different job: prepare meetups, organize x, and try contaminating him the less the better.

---

Una anécdota: I was working in a company, and we decided to remove a big feature that was a pain in
the ass and wasn't giving us any benefit, I was called by the accountant to let them know how much
money they had to remove as 'assets' in the accountant's books. This specific feature code was an
asset and had a value in the book entries.

That's horrific. My answer was: "We removed that code so we improved the rest. just add all the
value that you are substracting from this feature to the other code"
