# Designing architecture of your code before coding

- Taking time (it might be an hour, it might be a week) to think about
the design of your code is necessary. You need to plan what you are going to do.
- Adhering to those plans awful.

Planning is really important. The plan is not. The plan is (the expression is not mine)
'our best wrong guess'.

- That's why programming in a way that gives you hints about problems with your design
is so important. That's where unit testing shines. But you shouldn't do much code without
unit testing because unit testing can show you your design is wrong.

- I've been a CTO and we talked about the design of a feature, an external service, and
we talked about the necessary interfaces, etc.

- Almost a month later one of the junior programmers told me 'this doesn't fit but it what you told
us'. 
And I've seen it, and it was all wrong. I failed.
I failed. I failed miserably. For two reasons:
  - I let the programmer think that what I said was important.
  - I let the programmer think that the plan that came from our discussions was important
  - I didn't help the programmer to find a way to get early feedback from his code telling
  that the plan was wrong.

In Extreme Programming Explained – Embrace Change 2nd Ed, Kent Beck says:

McConnell writes, “In ten years the pendulum has swung from ‘design everything’ to ‘design nothing.’ But the alternative to BDUF [Big Design Up Front] isn’t no design up front, it’s a Little Design Up Front (LDUF) or Enough Design Up Front (ENUF).” This is a strawman argument. The alternative to designing before implementing is designing after implementing. Some design up-front is necessary, but just enough to get the initial implementation. Further design takes place once the implementation is in place and the real constraints on the design are obvious. Far from “design nothing,” the XP strategy is “design always.”

https://sites.google.com/site/unclebobconsultingllc/home/articles/the-scatology-of-agile-architecture
